content/posts/2020-12-17-unconventional-free-stock-images.md, before:

---
title: Unconventional and free stock images
tags: journal
---
A list of unconventional and free stock images by Mel Choyce in her [CSS-Tricks article](https://css-tricks.com/unconventional-stock-image-sources/):
- [British Library](https://unsplash.com/@britishlibrary) (unsplash)
- [New York Public Library](https://www.nypl.org/research/collections/digital-collections/public-domain)
- [The State Library of New South Wales](https://www.flickr.com/people/statelibraryofnsw/) (flickr)
- [Library of Congress](https://unsplash.com/@libraryofcongress/) (unsplash)
- [Library of Congress](https://www.loc.gov/free-to-use/)
- [National Library of Ireland ](https://www.flickr.com/people/nlireland/) (flickr)
- [Birmingham Museums Trust](https://unsplash.com/@birminghammuseumstrust) (unsplash)
- [National Museum of Asian Art](https://collections.si.edu/search/results.htm?q=&media.CC0=true&fq=data_source%3A%22Freer+Gallery+of+Art+and+Arthur+M.+Sackler+Gallery%22)
- [Met](https://www.metmuseum.org/art/collection/search#!?showOnly=openAccess&offset=0&pageSize=0&perPage=20&searchField=All&sortBy=Relevance)
- [Art Institute of Chicago](https://www.artic.edu/collection?is_public_domain=1)
- [NASA](https://images.nasa.gov)
- [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention](https://css-tricks.com/unconventional-stock-image-sources/) (e.g. Corona virus visualizations)
- [Open Parks Network](https://openparksnetwork.org) (nature photos)

## Writing forth

Ignited by Mel´s article, I´m writing this list of interesting image sources forth.

- [Old Book Illustrations](https://www.oldbookillustrations.com), wich for example Robin Rendle is using in his [essay on newsletters](https://www.robinrendle.com/essays/newsletters).
- [Stanford Libraries Data Visualization](https://exhibits.stanford.edu/dataviz/), old visualizations which date back into 18th century.

Commit message:

New South Wales is very good

content/posts/2020-12-17-unconventional-free-stock-images.md, after:

---
title: Unconventional and free stock images
tags: journal
---
A list of unconventional and free stock images by Mel Choyce in her [CSS-Tricks article](https://css-tricks.com/unconventional-stock-image-sources/):
- [British Library](https://unsplash.com/@britishlibrary) (unsplash)
- [New York Public Library](https://www.nypl.org/research/collections/digital-collections/public-domain)
- ==[The State Library of New South Wales](https://www.flickr.com/people/statelibraryofnsw/) (flickr), this one is very good for presentations!==
- [Library of Congress](https://unsplash.com/@libraryofcongress/) (unsplash)
- [Library of Congress](https://www.loc.gov/free-to-use/)
- [National Library of Ireland ](https://www.flickr.com/people/nlireland/) (flickr)
- [Birmingham Museums Trust](https://unsplash.com/@birminghammuseumstrust) (unsplash)
- [National Museum of Asian Art](https://collections.si.edu/search/results.htm?q=&media.CC0=true&fq=data_source%3A%22Freer+Gallery+of+Art+and+Arthur+M.+Sackler+Gallery%22)
- [Met](https://www.metmuseum.org/art/collection/search#!?showOnly=openAccess&offset=0&pageSize=0&perPage=20&searchField=All&sortBy=Relevance)
- [Art Institute of Chicago](https://www.artic.edu/collection?is_public_domain=1)
- [NASA](https://images.nasa.gov)
- [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention](https://css-tricks.com/unconventional-stock-image-sources/) (e.g. Corona virus visualizations)
- [Open Parks Network](https://openparksnetwork.org) (nature photos)

## Writing forth

Ignited by Mel´s article, I´m writing this list of interesting image sources forth.

- [Old Book Illustrations](https://www.oldbookillustrations.com), wich for example Robin Rendle is using in his [essay on newsletters](https://www.robinrendle.com/essays/newsletters).
- [Stanford Libraries Data Visualization](https://exhibits.stanford.edu/dataviz/), old visualizations which date back into 18th century.
