---
title: monitorEvents and monitor
tags: code
---
## `monitorEvents`

`monitorEvents()` allows to observe events from the web browser console for Safari, Chrome and Edge. *Firefox doesn´t support it.* Events will be logged to the console.

You can do:

```js
let main = document.querySelector('#main');
monitorEvents(main, 'click'); //log click events on #main
unmonitorEvents(main, 'click'); //stop logging click events on #main

monitorEvents(document.body); //log all events on the body
unmonitorEvents(document.body); //stop logging events on the body
monitorEvents(document.body, ['change', 'submit']); //log change and submit events on the body
```

Paul Irish [pointed out](https://briangrinstead.com/blog/chrome-developer-tools-monitorevents/), there are shortcuts for event categories. This is for Chrome Developer Tools in 2012, therefore I´m not sure if it works exactly in the same way for all browsers. A quick check with the `mouse` category for Safari indicated it could work the same for other browsers.

`mouse` category
: If the second argument is `mouse`, you’ll get all `mousedown`, `mouseup`, `click`, `dblclick`, `mousemove`, `mouseover`, `mouseout`, `mousewheel` events.

`key` category
: If the second argument is `key`, you’ll get all `keydown`, `keyup`, `keypress`, `textInpu` events.

`touch` category
: If the second argument is ‘touch’, you’ll get all `touchstart`, `touchmove`, `touchend`, `touchcancel` events. (See emulate touch events in devtools settings!)

`control` category
: If the second argument is `control`, you’ll get all `resize`, `scroll`, `zoom`, `focus`, `blur`, `select`, `change`, `submit`, `reset` events.

[no event type]
: If you don’t define a second argument, you’ll get all of the above, plus… `load`, `unload`, `abort`, `error`, `select`, `change`, `submit`, `reset`, `focus`, `blur`, `resize`, `scroll`, `search`, `devicemotion`, `deviceorientation`.

## `monitor`

`monitor()` allows to observe function calls from the web browser console for Chrome and Edge. *Safari and Firefox do not support it.* 

You can do:

```js
function myFn(); { } //sample function

monitor(myFn); //log function calls for myFn

myFn(); // function myFn called

myFn(1); // function myFn called with arguments: 1

unmonitor(myFn); //stop logging function calls for myFn
```