---
title: tabindex
tags: [accessibility, code]
---
[<cite>WebAIM Tabindex</cite>](https://webaim.org/techniques/keyboard/tabindex) contains an excellent description of how to use the HTML `tabindex` attribute. The attribute can have three distinct uses:

1. `tabindex="1"` (or any integer number greater than 0) defines an explicit tab or keyboard navigation order that is different from the logical order of the page (otherwise assigning the tabindex wouldn´t be necessary). An element with a positive `tabindex` will receive tab focus before elements without `tabindex` or with a `tabindex` value of `0`. **Assigning a positive tabindex and changing the logical flow must be avoided. Instead change the HTML structure of the underlying document**.
2. `tabindex="0"` allows any element besides links and form elements (which by default can receive focus through keyboard tabbing) to receive a keyboard focus. It does not change the tab order but places the element in the logical navigation flow. It´s questionable if elements different from links and form elements should be made interactive, because the <kbd>Enter</kbd> and <kbd>Space</kbd> keyboard interaction has to be scripted into those elements in addition to make them keyboard-interactive. 
3. `tabindex="-1"` takes an element out of the logical navigation flow but allows to set a programmatic focus through `focus()` scripting. The element cannot receive keyboard focus through tabbing. Examples include a modal dialog window that should be focused when it is opened, or a form submission error message that should be immediately focused when an errant form is submitted. Do not assign `tabindex="-1"` to any element that must be keyboard navigable, such as a link or button that sighted users can click on with the mouse.

Ire Aderinokun has a page about `tabindex` with the same guidance but additional code samples. See [<cite>How and when to use the tabindex attribute</cite>](https://bitsofco.de/how-and-when-to-use-the-tabindex-attribute/).

> [!NOTE] 
> **My learning:** I should have a very special and well thought of use case to start assigning values to the `tabindex` attribute. In most cases not doing anything with `tabindex` is probably the best strategy.