---
title: A new and fast home address
tags: journal
draft: true
---
[[toc]]

Over the weekend my homepage received a new domain. While the old address **ulf.codes** is still functioning, the new primary address is **ulfschneider.io** and anyone using the old address will be redirected to the new.

It all didn´t start as a domain change. At first I wanted to make my site faster by delegating the DNS from Strato to Netlify. My site is a [Jamstack](/2022-09-28-jamstack-in-20-minutes/) site hosted by Netlify and therefore letting them manage the DNS will make any site much faster in most cases. That´s because when someone wants to navigate to your website, Netlify knows from what area of the world your visitor is coming and they will leverage their Content Delivery Network (CDN) to serve your website from a datacenter nearest to your visitor. The impact is drastic. In my case, and in the environment I was measuring, page load improved from 1.2 s down to 0.6 s – all free of cost and without changing your build process.

While I was working with nameservers and DNS settings, I found the ulfschneider.io domain was available and I immediately reserved it with the idea of changing the primary domain for my blog to ulfschneider.io over the weekend – of course while keeping the site functioning for everyone who is used to the old address ulf.codes.

Here are a some quick notes of how both changes were accomplished, the DNS change as well as the primary domain change.

## Use the Netlify Name Servers for 🚀 speed

## Use an additional domain and make it your primary domain