content/posts/2024-7-09-lazygit.md, before:

---
title: Lazygit, a git client for the command line interface
tags:
  - code 
  - til
---
I learned three things from Chris Coyier´s [article](https://frontendmasters.com/blog/lazygit/):

1. [<cite>Lazygit</cite>](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit) is a terminal UI (TUI) for Git. It is written in Go by Jesse Duffield and it works cross-platform! Regular stage-commit-push work can be done  quick by using the keyboard shortcuts <kbd>SPACE</kbd> to stage, <kbd>c</kbd> to commit, and <kbd>SHIFT</kbd> <kbd>p</kbd> to push. I installed it via homebrew on my Mac with `brew install lazygit`. From then on, when I´m in the terminal inside of a Git repo, typing the command  `lazygit` will start the tool. It´s impressive what Jesse is doing here. 
   <figure><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VDXvbHZYeKY?si=JjcrP73aYFTD7X0e" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
   <figcaption><cite>Save Time With Lazygit (Tutorial) </cite> on <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDXvbHZYeKY ">YouTube</a></figcaption>
   </figure>
2. TUI is the abbreviation for Terminal UI.
3. There are libraries specialized to create TUI´s, like the libs mentioned on [Awesome TUIs](https://github.com/rothgar/awesome-tuis), by Justin Garrison, and [charm.sh](https://charm.sh).

Commit message:

Adding lazygit to my list of apps

content/posts/2024-7-09-lazygit.md, after:

---
title: Lazygit, a git client for the command line interface
tags:
  - code 
  - til
  - apps
---
I learned three things from Chris Coyier´s [article](https://frontendmasters.com/blog/lazygit/):

1. [<cite>Lazygit</cite>](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit) is a terminal UI (TUI) for Git. It is written in Go by Jesse Duffield and it works cross-platform! What stands out to me is how easy you can control it with the keyboard. Regular stage-commit-push work can be done from the files area [2] by using the keyboard shortcuts <kbd>SPACE</kbd> to stage, <kbd>C</kbd> to commit, and <kbd>SHIFT</kbd> <kbd>P</kbd> to push.  The branches area [3] allows to create a new branch with <kbd>N</kbd>, which will also checkout the branch. Merging any branch into the current branch is done with <kbd>SHIFT</kbd> <kbd>M</kbd>, deleting any branch with <kbd>D</kbd>. I installed it via homebrew on my Mac with `brew install lazygit` (there are [more ways to install](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)). From then on, when I´m in the terminal inside of a Git repo, typing the command  `lazygit` will start the tool. It´s impressive what Jesse is doing here. 
   <figure><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VDXvbHZYeKY?si=JjcrP73aYFTD7X0e" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
   <figcaption><cite>Save Time With Lazygit (Tutorial) </cite> on <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDXvbHZYeKY ">YouTube</a></figcaption>
   </figure>
2. TUI is the abbreviation for Terminal UI.
3. There are libraries specialized to create TUI´s, like the libs mentioned on [Awesome TUIs](https://github.com/rothgar/awesome-tuis), by Justin Garrison, and [charm.sh](https://charm.sh). 

I´ve added Lazygit to my list of apps because of it´s cross-platform availability and because of the keyboard navigation. It´s complementing my Fork Git client.
