---
title: konsens.it
tags: 
  - journal
  - agile
  - apps
---
[<cite>konsens.it</cite>](https://konsens.it/) is a web app to support decision making in groups. It is developed by [Martha](https://martha-eierdanz.com) and [Max](https://max.hn)  and it´s free to use, even without signing in. 

> We built <cite>konsens</cite> to support the democratisation of work. We see this as a contribution to a more democratic economy and society.
> <footer>Martha and Max</footer>

Their approach has three steps:

1. Create a question and invite participants with a unique link.
2. Everyone with the link can submit proposals that answer the question.
3. Everyone with the link can rate each submitted proposal with *resistance points*.

> Although asking how much someone is against a proposal might seem negative at first, it makes all participants think about their objections and if these objections are justified or could be resolved somehow. This helps the group discuss critical points that would otherwise not come to the surface. And it may keep people from blocking proposals just because they don’t like them.
> <footer>from the FAQ of konsens.it</footer>

Once the participants are invited, the group has 42 days (6 weeks) to conclude on a solution. The tool suggests the best solution will be the one with the *least resistance points*. After 42 days the decision including all submitted data will be automatically deleted. Up to that point your data is processed and stored on German servers in Frankfurt am Main and thus will be protected by the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

> [!NOTE]
> I have not tried the app yet, but I put it on my [app list](/blog/apps/), because this is something that could be worth having  quickly at hand.