---
title: Zed setup
abstract: How I configure my Zed editor
tags: code
draft: true
---


[[toc]]

## Decide what Zed `settings.json` to use

It is possible to override the users Zed settings with project specific settings. The user settings are located in `~/.config/zed/settings.json` and the project settings reside in your project under `.zed/settings.json`. Project settings always override the user settings. Project settings can be put under version control and will be shared across all colleagues working on a certain project.

## Associate `.prettierrc` filt type

Tell Zed to treat the `.prettierrc` file as JSON. 

```json
//Zed settings.json
{
 "file_types": {
    "JSON": ["prettierrc"]
  }
}
```

## Format on save

Perform a formatting of the buffer contents before saving.

```json
//Zed settings.json
{
  "format_on_save": "on"
}
```

## Wrap lines

Automatically wrap lines to fit into the editor window.

```json
//Zed settings.json
{
  "soft_wrap": "editor_width"
}
```

## Remove semicolon in TypeScript and JavaScript

Prettier can remove semicolons as statement separators for languages where it is safe to do so. This is mostly for TypeScript and JavaScript and tidies up the code in my view.

```json
//.prettierrc
{
  "semi": false
}
```

## Remove trailing comma

Remove commas that are not required.

```json
//.prettierrc
{
  "trailingComma": "none"
}
```


## Sort imports

I investigated two plugins for sorting imports and ended up with installing [`prettier-plugin-organize-imports`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prettier-plugin-organize-imports) into the project via 

```sh
npm -i --save-dev prettier-plugin-organize-imports
```

Then you will add the plugin to your `.prettierrc` settings:

```json
//.prettierrc
{
  "plugins": ["prettier-plugin-organize-imports"],
}
```

----

An *alternative plugin*, which will give you more control over the sort order is [`@trivago/prettier-plugin-sort-imports`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@trivago/prettier-plugin-sort-imports), which can be installed in your project via 

```sh
npm i --save-dev @trivago/prettier-plugin-sort-imports 
```

This plugin requires the following settings in your `.prettierrc` file:

```json
//.prettierrc
{
  "plugins": ["@trivago/prettier-plugin-sort-imports"],
  "importOrder": ["^[a-zA-Z0-9@]", "^[./]"],
  "importOrderSeparation": true,
  "importOrderSortSpecifiers": true,
  "importOrderCaseInsensitive": true
}
```

## No complaints in CSS files about Tailwind at rules

To avoid having Zed complain about unknown at rules when editing and composing CSS files, make the following settings in the `.settings.json`:

```json
//Zed .settings.json
"languages": {
    "CSS": {
      "formatter": "auto",
      "language_servers": ["tailwindcss-language-server"]
    }
  }
```



