content/pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /about/
title: About me
nodate: true
notags: true
tags: articles
id: about
hero: /img/ulf/ulf-16x9-900.jpg
heroalt: Portrait of Ulf Schneider
herocss: mxw-rg
---
Hi, my name is Ulf Schneider and this is my website. I´m a software developer and agile coach, currently heading the Processes & Quality team of Diebold Nixdorf Professional Services. My path through 30 years of software went like this:

<dl class="timeline">
<dt>1991 – 1996 University</dt>
<dd>I graduated at the University of Paderborn (Dipl.-Wirt. Inform.).</dd>
<dt>1996 – 2006 IBM Global Services</dt>
<dd>I was more than ten years with IBM Global Services as a developer and software architect.</dd>
<dt>2006 – 2014 Self-employment</dt>
<dd>Seven years self-employed as an agile coach, architect and trainer.</dd>
<dt>2014 – today Diebold Nixdorf</dt>
<dd>Since 2014 I am employed as an agile coach at Diebold Nixdorf, heading the Professional Services Processes & Quality team.</dd>
</dl>

<h2>Connect with me</h2>
{% include connect.html %}

<h2>Content ownership</h2>

According to § 55 Abs.2 RStV responsible for the content of this website:{.mxw-sm }

<address class="mry">
Ulf Schneider<br>
Böckstiegel-Str. 27<br>
33100 Paderborn<br>
Germany<br>
</address>

Commit message:

Change home page and about

content/pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /about/
title: About me
nodate: true
notags: true
tags: articles
id: about
hero: /img/ulf/ulf-16x9-900.jpg
heroalt: Portrait of Ulf Schneider
herocss: mxw-rg
---
Hi, my name is Ulf Schneider and this is my website. I´m a software developer and agile coach, currently heading the Processes & Quality team of Diebold Nixdorf Professional Services.

At this place I´m publishing my thoughts about [agile software development](/blog/agile/). I´m also building and sharing a set of [tools](/blog/tools/) which help me to shape my workspace *a little* more to my liking.

One of my most recent projects is a [Fairlight Strael](/blog/strael/) build. Every now and then my son Emil makes a drawing, which I aim to [capture here](/images/emil-drawing/). Emil created a picture of [the virus](/2020-03-18-emil-pictured-the-coronavirus/) at beginning of the Corona pandemic.

My path through 30 years of software went like this:

<dl class="timeline">
<dt>1991 – 1996 University</dt>
<dd>I graduated at the University of Paderborn (Dipl.-Wirt. Inform.).</dd>
<dt>1996 – 2006 IBM Global Services</dt>
<dd>I was more than ten years with IBM Global Services as a developer and software architect.</dd>
<dt>2006 – 2014 Self-employment</dt>
<dd>Seven years self-employed as an agile coach, architect and trainer.</dd>
<dt>2014 – today Diebold Nixdorf</dt>
<dd>Since 2014 I am employed as an agile coach at Diebold Nixdorf, heading the Professional Services Processes & Quality team.</dd>
</dl>

<h2>Connect with me</h2>
{% include connect.html %}

<h2>Content ownership</h2>

According to § 55 Abs.2 RStV responsible for the content of this website:{.mxw-sm }

<address class="mry">
Ulf Schneider<br>
Böckstiegel-Str. 27<br>
33100 Paderborn<br>
Germany<br>
</address>
