content/posts/tool/2020-06-01-markdown-it-fitmedia.md, before:

---
title: markdown-it-fitmedia
tags: tools
---

A [markdown-it plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/markdown-it-fitmedia) to set aspect-ratio of responsive images, make them lazy loading, and to make videos responsive.

[[toc]]


## Images

Responsive images can create cumulative layout shifts (CLS) when loaded, because it´s difficult to get their height correct when their width is flexible. Check "[Setting Height And Width On Images Is Important Again](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2020/03/setting-height-width-images-important-again/)" to get a comprehensive view about the problem. The CSS property `aspect-ratio` is around the corner and will help solving the CLS problem for responsive images.

The markdown-it-fitmedia plugin makes use of `aspect-ratio` by  analyzing each of your referenced images, determining its dimensions, and setting the `aspect-ratio` based on the dimensions of the image. By default, the plugin will also add the `loading="lazy"` html attribute to your images.

Example:

```md
![Image of Spitfire tool](/img/spitfire/spitfire.jpg)
```

will become

```html
<img alt="Image of Spitfire tool" src="/img/spitfire/spitfire.jpg" loading="lazy" style="aspect-ratio:750/388;" width="750" height="388">
```

Also, html in your markdown, like for example

```html
<figure>
<img alt="" src="/img/spitfire/spitfire.jpg" >
<figcaption>Image of Spitfire tool</figcaption>
</figure>
```

will be transformed into

```html
<figure>
<img alt="" src="/img/spitfire/spitfire.jpg" loading="lazy" style="aspect-ratio:750/388;" width="750" height="388">
<figcaption>Image of Spitfire tool</figcaption>
</figure>
```

## Wrapping media

markdown-it-fitmedia carries an adoption of the original [fit-vids](http://fitvidsjs.com) script to make `iframe` and `video` tags responsive. Embedded videos are not automatically responsive or fluid. They come with a fixed setting for width and height. To make them responsive while keeping aspect ratio, they are embedded into a wrapper element. The wrapper receives some clever padding and positioning, and as a last step the fixed dimensions are removed from the video. The technique has been described by Thierry Koblentz in his A List Apart article “[Creating Intrinsic Ratios for Video](https://alistapart.com/article/creating-intrinsic-ratios-for-video/)” in 2009.

For example, this

```html
<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/304626830" width="600" height="338"></iframe>
```

will become

```html
<div class="fit-media" style="position:relative; height:0; padding-bottom:56.333333333333336%;aspect-ratio:600/338;">
<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/304626830" style="position:absolute; top:0; left:0; width:100%; height:100%;">
</iframe>
</div>
```

## Install

```shell
npm i markdown-it-fitmedia
```

## Usage

```js
var markdownIt = require('markdown-it');
var markdownItFitMedia = require('markdown-it-fitmedia');

markdownIt({
    html: true
    })
    .use(markdownItFitMedia, {  //default options
        imgDir: '',
        lazyLoad: true,
        aspectRatio: true,
        imgSizeHint: true,
        fitWrapElements: ['iframe', 'video']
    });
```

## Configuration

- `imgDir`, default is `''`: Define the directory where images are stored. The given string will be prepended to the `src` path of the images you are using in your markdown to load and analyze an image for dimension detection. Example use case: I´m using this plugin during buildtime for my 11ty powered blog. There I have a source directory and a destination directory for the created site. The source directory is `/content` and images are stored in `/content/img`. During buildtime the images are getting copied into the destination location, where `/content` will be removed, so that the resulting images can be referenced in the html with `/img/…`. However, markdow-it-fitmedia needs to access the images in the source directory, therefore, in this case, I´m configuring `imgDir: './content'`.
- `lazyLoad`, default is `true`: When `true`, images will receive the html attribute-setting of `loading="lazy"`.
- `aspectRatio`, default is `true`: When `true`, the CSS property `aspect-ratio` is set on images and wrapped media.
- `imgSizeHint`, default is `true`: When `true`, images will receive the html attributes of `width` and `height` as a size hint.
- `fitWrapElements`, default is `['iframe', 'video']`: Define the html tags to be put into a responsive wrapper.

Commit message:

Decoding async for markdown-it-fitmedia

content/posts/tool/2020-06-01-markdown-it-fitmedia.md, after:

---
title: markdown-it-fitmedia
tags: tools
---

A [markdown-it plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/markdown-it-fitmedia) to set aspect-ratio of responsive images, make them lazy loading, async decoding, and to make videos responsive.

[[toc]]

## Images

Responsive images can create cumulative layout shifts (CLS) when loaded, because it´s difficult to get their height correct when their width is flexible. Check "[Setting Height And Width On Images Is Important Again](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2020/03/setting-height-width-images-important-again/)" to get a comprehensive view about the problem. The CSS property `aspect-ratio` is around the corner and will help solving the CLS problem for responsive images.

The markdown-it-fitmedia plugin makes use of `aspect-ratio` by  analyzing each of your referenced images, determining its dimensions, and setting the `aspect-ratio` based on the dimensions of the image. By default, the plugin will also add the `loading="lazy"` and `decoding="async"` html attributes to your images.

Example:

```md
![Image of Spitfire tool](/img/spitfire/spitfire.jpg)
```

will become

```html
<img alt="Image of Spitfire tool" src="/img/spitfire/spitfire.jpg" loading="lazy" decoding="async" style="aspect-ratio:750/388;" width="750" height="388">
```

Also, html in your markdown, like for example

```html
<figure>
<img alt="" src="/img/spitfire/spitfire.jpg" >
<figcaption>Image of Spitfire tool</figcaption>
</figure>
```

will be transformed into

```html
<figure>
<img alt="" src="/img/spitfire/spitfire.jpg" loading="lazy" decoding="async" style="aspect-ratio:750/388;" width="750" height="388">
<figcaption>Image of Spitfire tool</figcaption>
</figure>
```

## Wrapping media

markdown-it-fitmedia carries an adoption of the original [fit-vids](http://fitvidsjs.com) script to make `iframe` and `video` tags responsive. Embedded videos are not automatically responsive or fluid. They come with a fixed setting for width and height. To make them responsive while keeping aspect ratio, they are embedded into a wrapper element. The wrapper receives some clever padding and positioning, and as a last step the fixed dimensions are removed from the video. The technique has been described by Thierry Koblentz in his A List Apart article “[Creating Intrinsic Ratios for Video](https://alistapart.com/article/creating-intrinsic-ratios-for-video/)” in 2009.

For example, this

```html
<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/304626830" width="600" height="338"></iframe>
```

will become

```html
<div class="fit-media" style="position:relative; height:0; padding-bottom:56.333333333333336%;aspect-ratio:600/338;">
<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/304626830" style="position:absolute; top:0; left:0; width:100%; height:100%;">
</iframe>
</div>
```

## Install

```shell
npm i markdown-it-fitmedia
```

## Usage

```js
var markdownIt = require('markdown-it');
var markdownItFitMedia = require('markdown-it-fitmedia');

markdownIt({
    html: true
    })
    .use(markdownItFitMedia, {  //default options
        imgDir: '',
        lazyLoad: true,
        decoding: 'async',
        aspectRatio: true,
        imgSizeHint: true,
        fitWrapElements: ['iframe', 'video']
    });
```

## Configuration

- `imgDir`, default is `''`: Define the directory where images are stored. The given string will be prepended to the `src` path of the images you are using in your markdown to load and analyze an image for dimension detection. Example use case: I´m using this plugin during buildtime for my 11ty powered blog. There I have a source directory and a destination directory for the created site. The source directory is `/content` and images are stored in `/content/img`. During buildtime the images are getting copied into the destination location, where `/content` will be removed, so that the resulting images can be referenced in the html with `/img/…`. However, markdow-it-fitmedia needs to access the images in the source directory, therefore, in this case, I´m configuring `imgDir: './content'`.
- `lazyLoad`, default is `true`: When `true`, images will receive the html attribute-setting of `loading="lazy"`.
- `decoding`, default is `'auto'`: Will set the value of the `decoding` html attribute for images.
- `aspectRatio`, default is `true`: When `true`, the CSS property `aspect-ratio` is set on images and wrapped media.
- `imgSizeHint`, default is `true`: When `true`, images will receive the html attributes of `width` and `height` as a size hint.
- `fitWrapElements`, default is `['iframe', 'video']`: Define the html tags to be put into a responsive wrapper.
